The Marketplace: 

Developing a visually appealing, dynamic website or application can be a tedious process. One
challenge is ensuring the development team’s design work matches the vision of the client before
commencing with full-scale development. A solution is to develop prototypes that can be shared
with stakeholders (e.g., the design and development team, clients, and end users). Prototyping
allows designers the ability to map out the flow of users through a site as they interact with page
elements and provides a medium for teams and clients to gain a better understanding of how the
website or application looks, feels, and performs, enabling a more efficient process for revisions
in the early stages of the project.

Undergraduate students collaborated with a faculty mentor to design a prototype of an online
marketplace iPhone application for college students to buy and sell products to one another (e.g.,
textbooks, electronics, clothing, etc.). Students would log in using their secure college-issued
credentials, thereby verifying users are current students at the host institution, and select options
to either buy or sell items. The application would allow users to pay for the items in cash or
using a credit card. The development of this prototype was enabled by two design frameworks:
Figma and InVision. Figma, a platform facilitating real time collaboration and tools for
developing screens, was used to create static graphic screens for the application. The screens
were saved as PNG files that were exported and uploaded into InVision. InVision is a
prototyping tool for designers with functionality that enables mockups before developing a full
codebase. The system integrates with graphics editing software (e.g., Figma, Photoshop,
Illustrator, and Sketch) to allow screen design prototypes that can be presented and
collaboratively reviewed with team members and clients. The software provides a platform for
prototyping the appearance and feel of a dynamic application to gain an understanding of how it
would look and perform in production. 

The Marketplace was accepted into the 2020 ACM New York Celebration of Women in Computing in Poughkeepsie, NY.


View and interact with The Marketplace here:
https://invis.io/5MUEXACRU8H
